Bee research:

Bumblebee conservation trust-

https://www.bumblebeeconservation.org/what-we-do/our-position-statements/honeybees-position-statement/

Issues talked about

Plant diversity:

common for areas around heavy honey bee populations to be single type of plant which is bad as it limits the variation of pollinators that can live in an environment.

Hive positioning:

it can be detrimental to local bee species if honey bee hives are placed near endangered species of bee.

bee species diversity:

makes a point that often efforts to increase honey bee population in order to help the environment often leads to the opposite effect and actually hurts other pollinators.

there are 270 species of wild bee, with 24 being extant bumble bees and 250 species of solidary bee (bees that do there own thing and don't produce honey and don't live in groups/hives). extant bumble bees are of the genus bombus and they form hives and are a species that behave very similar to honey bees but with the key difference being that they do not produce any honey.The queens mate in late summer then hybernate over the winter so there is no need to produce honey where as honey bees store honey for over the winter. 

Compared to all of these bees there is only one species of honey bee, Apis mellifera. there are different sub species and colour variations which offten have dfferent common names but they fall under the same species. they are not an endagered species and over the years there populations have only grown.

Some countries have already begun attempting to restrict beekeeping because of the potential effects on wild pollinators. Managed honeybees are known to affect wild pollinators in two main ways: competition for floral resources, and the spread of diseases.

Competition:

Honeybee colonies have been found to collect between 10.5 and 46.75kg of pollen annually, which means that each honeybee colony will reduce the amount of food available for wild pollinators.
wild bees have even shown changes of behaviour in pollinating less pollon rich flowers just to avoid honey bees. in areas where honey bee populations are reduced the wild bee populations rise.

Disease transmission:

Several diseases affecting honeybees can be found in bumblebees. The seriousness to bumblebees of most of these diseases is not yet precisely known, but bumblebees infected with Deformed Wing Virus (DWV) are known to develop deformed wings and suffer higher mortality. Bumblebees have also been found carrying the fungal pathogen Nosema ceranae, a new disease of honeybees, and infectious diseases have been implicated in bumblebee declines.

Disease transfer takes place mostly through the shedding of disease particles onto shared flowers. DWV is the best-studied of these diseases, and the human-caused movement of managed honeybees has been found to be the source of DWV outbreaks in bumblebees. As many other diseases are likely to be spread in a similar fashion, it is reasonable to assume that having managed bees in close proximity to vulnerable populations of wild bees will present a high risk of infecting these wild bees with new diseases.

